# COS 330 - Theme 1

## CIA

_Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability_
A - Always have service available
I - Data always be accurate, correct
C - Data only sent and viewed by intended audience

### 4 Acts of harm

- interception - not blocked, just copied
- interruption - actually blocked from intended destination
- modification - changed information
- fabrication - false information

Ask how is the C-I-A of my company, etc. threatened?

## CIA Triad in more detail

### Confidentiality

Only authorized people allowed to access.

#### Can be difficult

Who is authorized? How much of the data allowed to see?

Who owns the data?

Obviously relates to data, but can even relate to hardware.

#### Failure

- Unauthorized person/process/program
- Person authorized to access certain piece, but not another piece
- Approximation of data (salary range vs salary)
- Awareness of the existence of a piece of data

Call the person, process, or program the _subject_, the data item the _object_, the kind of access the _access mode_, and the kind of authorization the _policy_. 

### Integrity

Example: Macro to insert the word "not" after random instances of the word "is" in a Word doc

To preserve the integrity:

- Precise, accurate, unmodified, modified in only acceptable ways etc

### Availability

Switch PC on and nothing happens, hard drive crash. **Degree** of availability: slow

Available if:

- Present in usable form
- Capacity to meet service's needs
- Clear progress without errors
- Service completed in acceptable period of time

## Types of threats

Consider the source. Potential cause for harm $\to$ **threat**

* Natural causes vs Human Causes
* Human $\to$ Benign vs Malicious
* Malicious $\to$ Random vs Directed

Too many ways to interfere with assets. Can try to think of as much as possible, it won't be everything.

## Types of attackers

Who are attackers? No profile to pinpoint.

- Individuals
- Organized Groups

Everyone has different motives; financial gain, revenge, fun, challenge, war & conflict.

## Harm

Negative effect of a realized attack. Difficult to assign a specific number to the value of an asset.

Uncovered risk by controls $]to$